roll call and the seaing of alternates I
see an CR is with us Leanne
Hutchinson is
here I don't
see Steve Nelson
and I don't see Scott
psan Scott may be at the at the
community center
meeting okay yeah I talked to him
earlier he thought that he would be here
but uh but be that as it may and so with
that uh Susan I'm going to see see you
as an alternate for
Scott
okay and I'm here and so we've got a
quum
yeah and I just got
uh so anyhow that's uh that's our lineup
for tonight an Leanne Susan and
me additions or changes to the agenda
um Allan we we were starting to talk
just a little bit about uh the
sequencing sequencing of events we as
you know we got a proposed
amendment to the original application
with respect to a restoration plan that
came in
uh late last week and uh maybe uh maybe
some early this week that we got to see
all that so
uh we've got that I I would think that
we would accept that as an item Allen
and then go into executive session and
discuss the way
ahead yeah that sounds
reasonable Okay so
what what I'll do uh is make a motion to
change the
agenda by eliminating item
five the executive
session will under new business we will
put receive amendment to Gravel Pit
application and then item seven will go
into executive session
well we might uh excuse me Jed go ahead
I I'm thinking we may want to go into
executive session first um because
uh I mean it's all related to the you
know uh enforcement of
the
um remediation
plan so I I think it's it's fairly
within the uh you know pending
litigation which doesn't have to be
about pending litigation pending
litigation can be about um you know
incoit claims that the commission may
may have um because what we talk about
there may affect how we proceed so we
may not want to accept that Amendment
until it's clear that that's the best
way to go forward okay I I got you and
uh had some of those thoughts and uh
so anyhow I rraw I'll withdraw my
original motion and I'll make a new
motion that under new business we put
receive Amendment to the Gravel Pit
application I'll leave uh item s
executive session in there just in case
we need to go back for
anything um but we'll do the executive
session first then receive the
application and then we'll we'll leave
the rest of the agenda as it is and
so that's the motion um I would need a
second to that
motion second it thank you
an and then any discussion on the
motion so I will um Jed uh will you will
do this with a a breakout room I assume
same as last
time yes so what I'll need is um a list
of people who are going into executive
session and essentially who on the the
call is excluded um after I pause the
recording I'll invite obviously
yourself yeah so so who who's coming yes
so it'll be uh all of the all of the
commission members okay all the
alternate
members so we have we have
um the non the non-commission members uh
there's someone on the phone with the
phone number s
742 5475 I do not know who that is and
then we have Amry deel as
well yep I saw anarie just joined us and
Scott pan is on his way he uh he's going
to be a minute or two late
so so the the uh the one phone number
that you had mentioned I don't know who
that is either so that's me Leanne
Hutchinson oh oh okay lean I'll merge
I'll merge you with the um the video
just so we get it all together so say
say the number you were talking about
again John because I I saw a different
number pop up from what I thought it was
a 742 number um but that's Leanne so I
just merged her audio with her video so
so it's all set okay is is Jim and Allen
I assume are invited Jim and Allen and
you y and then so Anar is the only one
not invited nope she is here is an
alternate oh she's an alternate I'm
sorry Amry and uh and I would seat her
as an alternate but Scott bran said he's
on the way and
so we'll we'll go with that uh when we
get that and I see somebody else maybe
it's Marina's connecting
um I see the town of vover seal yeah so
at this point is everyone am I excluding
anyone um Katherine Hutchinson would not
be able to attend oh okay sorry right
right okay I get my Hutchinson's merge
yeah um okay so with with apologies to
Katherine I think we went through this
last time I'll uh everyone will jump out
into a uh and and sorry I don't know if
this is that Marina
it's either Marina or Eric Eric yeah oh
of vanover is me okay we got Eric here
Eric will be invited to the uh um
executive session as well and Scott psan
is here uh Scott you're uh in the
attendance um the only commission member
missing is uh Steve Nelson and Susan
England is
uh seated for
him okay so um that was we're still in
discussion um I I know who's going in so
once you approve your motion I'll pause
the recording and bring everyone up to
the breakout room well we'll do uh we'll
do the public
comment first and then we'll go to the
executive session oh okay so okay that
that'll be how that works
so J do you have to shuffle the
alternate position round did didn't you
see Susan in place of
Scott
um yeah that's what you said I was doing
Scott okay so now Susan you're seated
for Steve Nelson
okay thank you
Jim you're
welcome and uh so we we had a motion and
we got a second on the motion and
so this month we're going to vote on the
motion we didn't do that last month so
uh an
g hi
leam hi Scott
hi
Scott looking for a vote on the
motion disappear he just disappeared he
just disappeared
you don't want to face the hard
questions I
guess oh he loves those hard questions I
back in Susan
I and I vote I as
well
um looking to see if Scott pop back in
here if if he does I'll I'll bring him
over to the executive session okay so uh
at this point uh the motion
pass
400 uh next up on the agenda is public
comment
and Miss Hutchinson if you had any
comments that you wanted to make
uh at this point you're welcome
too yes just on my usual request that I
would like to reserve any comment or
question um until the uh Gravel Pit
discussion comes up and then secondly is
it easier for everybody if I log off and
somebody just lets me know when you're
out of executive session would that be
easier if I'm the only one
on
um no I think it I I I mean we could we
could do that also but I think it's
better to um invite specific people
because there's there's no somebody log
in at any time right somebody could log
in at any time and then we would have to
boot them so we'll we'll segregate the
the commission all right good thought
though okay Scott I'm gonna I see you're
back with us we had a motion to uh add
receipt of of uh the amendment to the
application for the Gravel Pit after we
go to Executive session and uh you
didn't get a chance to vote on that
if you wanted to vote to accept that
change now's a good time to do that I
okay thank you so the motion passes five
Z okay so we are are done with public
comment and at this point John I think
we'll transition to Executive session
and uh you you would got Eric was on on
the list of uh folks to go there with us
as well didn't you I do okay I'm about
to pause the recording and then you will
all get an invitation to jump over to
hold on just a minute just a
minute I need to make a motion okay that
we go to Executive
session then
so I will make a motion to enter
executive session inviting all
commission members alate members Jim Hy
Alan Certo Eric Anderson and John
gizowski second
thank you
Leanne uh I'll call for a vote Ann I
Leanne I Scott I Susan I and I vote I as
well the motion passes 500 now John we
can go to Executive session
okay and I think uh everybody made it
back I was looking
for England
and
uh okay this is Leanne um I'm I got
disconnected for at least five
minutes um what what is going on now and
I had asked a question that was in the
process of being answered I'm not sure
what happened to my
reception um well I think as soon as we
get back to the meeting it will be clear
to you what we're doing if if you have
questions we can entertain them then I
uh I don't want to go back into
executive session
uh because I didn't know that we lost
you
there but I think it will be clear and
and I see that Susan England is back
with us now okay so we have everybody
and uh and I apologize if there was a
better way to handle that uh lean but uh
I'm not sure what it is at this point
okay and I
think I think it'll be clear what
uh what's going on there
so I hope so because that was part of my
question when I got
disconnected so we are
uh on item six new
business receive Amendment to the Gravel
Pit app
application
and on that uh on that Amendment to the
application I would propose that the
commission take no action tonight other
than to ask Jim to assess the
uh completeness of the application and
report to us on that at the next meeting
I'm not making a motion to take no
action so uh if anybody's got comments
on that uh now is the time that we can
discuss
that oh perhaps that gets back to what I
was asking when I got disconnected was I
think attorney curto was re-explaining
the difference between a modification
and a clarification and how that affects
what we do
okay yeah and I think uh so again uh
that the application came in as a
modification and so that's that's one of
the reasons why we're treating it as a
modification not the uh the initial
thing uh I don't know if you heard my
example of the
uh
the change that we did uh which we
considered a minor change to put the
gazebo on the property out there on
route 6 just as you come into Handover
and uh no I did not yeah the uh you know
the applicant came in briefed us we we
made the determination then that uh it
was not a substan of change and went
about our business um I think uh you
know this came in as a modification with
the new application and and that's uh
that that controls the direction that
we're going to head and I just think
that's the most most prudent uh course
of action at this
point so Jim will let us know at the
next meeting if it's a complete
application if it is we can uh determine
when when we want to schedule a public
hearing if that's the way we want to
go or if it's not we'll we'll determine
what to do with that
then hopefully that clears it up a
little bit Leanne
uh a bit anyway yeah I I see your use of
the I I guess I understand um I'm still
not completely clear because it seems to
not be what we started out talking about
earlier as far as the word clarification
but I understand what you just said
about it came in being called the
modification so you're using that word
now
yes okay
okay
um so Jim you've got for Action to uh to
give us an assessment on the
completion got that
Jim Jim did you hear me you're muted if
you were
yes I did I'm sorry okay thank
you
um moving on to uh old business and and
Allen I I think
uh you got us through the hard spot of
the night um you you're certainly
welcome to uh hang on for our planet
conservation and development discussion
but that's probably not uh well it's
probably it's probably uh not a good use
of your money so uh if you don't need me
I'll U I'll I'll take my leave thanks
for your
help all right thank you thank you guys
good night good night take
care okay so next up was the discussion
on the plan of conservation and
development
and I asked everybody to uh you come
prepared to
uh to you know tell us what it is that
you would you know 10 years from now
what it is you'd like to see an Handover
that we don't currently
have and if there's anything that you
would be concerned about 10 years into
the
future and so
uh with that in mind uh who wants to go
first I know everybody's got to hop on
the easy one so
Leanne you you you're on the screen as
being uh you know ready to talk your uh
what was your
thoughts are you just saying
that I'm on the screen as what being
ready to talk yep your name was was
uh the main screen so it was like uh you
were trying to say something I think it
was a hold over from your previous
comment but but that's what it showed
us yeah I I show a different screen now
although at least now I can hear you
again um but I'm not I'm not seeing what
you're seeing
um as far as something I'd like to see
in 10 years or over the next 10
years yep that's a
question
um let's see say this calls for more
than one
thing
um I'm sorry I'm just I'm just putting
this up so I can take notes together I
that's
fine I think um a lot remains to be seen
I mean I haven't thinking about this
since you emailed us and asked us um and
I wasn't sure and I maybe I should have
asked you earlier if you meant you know
what did we think based on the results
of the survey or you know or what did we
think um just without that or both um I
would say every time we do one of these
updates of the
pocd um people say that they want the
town to stay the way it is as far as the
rural character and things like that um
um you know they're usually suggestions
for relatively small retail stores you
know nobody ever wants a big box store
most people don't mind driving to
another town for most of their purchases
um you know they usually want something
small and I think since the senior and
Community Center isn't even open yet
that's going to be a difference in you
know having a that as a resource but
it's not open yet I think that you know
a lot remains to be seen as far as um
how that plays out for recreation and
for the
seniors Recreation thei
okay
um anything that you're concerned about
lean anything that you're concerned
about U I can hear an echo now um well
it
wasn't as I recall too much of an issue
on the survey results um I'm just always
concerned about crime anywhere which we
don't have too much of a problem with an
over but i' like to keep it that way
as and uh you know even if it's
something that not that anything would
exclude anything else but um you know
that's always a concern of mine and
um you know we we see some requests for
increased enforcement on Route Six um
his speeding and endangering others is a
crime in itself you know it's a
different type of crime other than um
you know residential or something
something like that but
um I I right now I don't I guess I don't
see anything else being a huge issue
that we have to solve in the next 10
years you know an overriding
issue
okay did you want to include anything
about what's special about Andover that
should be protected and
enhanced well the the hot river is
always a big one um I think the you know
we have a nice a nice trail
system and you know just um
Farmland um you know I think enhanced
we're going to get that with the senior
center hopefully once we have Staffing
and and programs in place a lot of that
will be addressed as far as enhancements
to the
town
okay very good answer your question yeah
I think that's a good start who wants to
go
second I can go okay thank you an
um I guess what I'd like to see over the
next 10 years is
to have um more choices in housing I'd
like to see things like the senior
housing that you see like being built in
Hein where there's um maybe like you
know two-bedroom homes they might be
attached to at a time where they might
be all separate it doesn't matter but to
have um a way of getting senior housing
like that um Town Homes type things you
know two or three connected as a town
home I think also is good um I'm hoping
we do have more families I'm seeing some
more families you know young families
with kids coming in
I'd like to see more of that and I'd
really like to see more
businesses
and both
the small businesses like maybe um small
Banks or gift shop like more gift shops
that over and over is great but we need
more in the um small
businesses could be like on Route 316
Center Street those areas I'm wonder if
we need to change the zoning to make it
easier to do things like that because
with our strictly rural zoning in that
area now it's pretty hard to encourage
people to do that because they're just
going to say well we can't do it and
they don't understand how you can go
about changing it um and I wouldn't mind
seeing slightly bigger stores also I
mean I don't want to see a Walmart but I
think of the size of the like a Highland
Park size
store uh the stores like you see up
there on route 44 in in centry or the
things you see down on 66 in Hein that
type of thing is what I'd like to see in
Andover and like those larger scale
things maybe something the size of a
pharmacy or a Highland Park that you
you'd put that along six or are you
suggesting that might be
appropriate probably be a yeah probably
along because that's our main road I
don't know 316 is the possibility I
suppose but there's more houses along
there which would make them easier to to
have the smaller scale type shops and
those
um know real estate doctor's offices
um give shops
Bank you know that kind of
thing that's really what I was hoping to
see and overg get in the next 10
years um what I'm most concerned about I
think that we are stagnant and don't
change I think we do need to change some
it's been too much in the last 20 years
of nothing has changed there's L
anything
um
the Dollar General the only thing that
come in really in that
time and actually things up there at the
Andover Plaza closed you know so there's
less there than there had been that's
what I'm concerned
about and U things that are
special I guess the people are great and
that's probably what I like the
best thank you
an you're welcome Scott you want to go
next um and talked about you know what I
was gonna say about the affordable or
senior housing I would say that that's
what I would like to see more of what am
I most concerned about um that we never
changed the regulation about building in
the flood plane
and what's special about and should be
protected and enhance of course it's hop
River
okay um I'm just going down my list here
uh
Susan Okay
um what you want to go the first
question um Y what do you want to see 10
years from now what i' like to see okay
what I'd like to see 10 years from now a
lot of it is said I would like to see
Variety in housing I'd like to see as an
mentioned duplexes I would like to see
um Apartments to bring in um affordable
housing you know young workers right out
of college so that they can afford to
live here um
and make it easier perhaps to have
apartments in how existing buildings
because some of the old farmhouses are
so large you could easily you know put
an apartment in there very comfortably
um I would like to see more
recruitment you know in in quotes of
younger families because this leads my
biggest concern is that
Andover is aging out too quickly and I
remember 10 years ago we were the second
oldest town in this in the state I think
that we need to bring in more young
people and um
provide opportunities for the seniors to
um live in in smaller housing uh make it
more make it easier for them but also
have available to the younger families
places that that they can move to that
are
affordable um
um and then I would also oh yeah we
mentioned have activities what what I
find special about Andover is the uh the
rail trail is fantastic I think that's
something that can be built on uh no
perhaps having a little coffee shop or
something along it and then I think that
um kind of going along with what an had
said about gift shops uh what I've been
seeing because I have grandchildren is
that that dance studio draws a lot of
people into town and what what's
interesting is the parents all seem to
go to the um endover pizza and that
draws a lot of business into endover
Pizza taking something like that maybe
concentrating on making and over
somewhat of an Arts Community or or
working on that because there are a lot
of very creative people
in so kind of like taking the whole gift
shop but also different types of Arts
per performance painting whatever and
try to maybe set up First Community in
town do you have any concerns
Susan uh yeah my concern was the Aging
uh I'm I'm very concerned about the
Aging population and the lack of housing
both for seniors forcing them to stay in
age in place which is not necessarily a
bad thing but but it it does reduce the
housing stock for for younger families
to come in and I think it's really
critical to start rebuilding um and
reattaching the younger families when I
when I came here there were a lot of
young families and that was what made it
attractive to us but you know 40 years
ago
okay anything else no that's it okay
am H sorry I'm not able to get my camera
on tonight but I'm here um things that I
would like to see in 10 years um I would
like to see more service
businesses um you know right now you
have to drive to Hein or centry to get
your haircut or um go to the bank Etc um
go to a a doctor's office so maybe some
things like that um also you know some
maybe Mom and Pop type restaurants
nothing that is like a chain but more
like um you know a independent I mean I
actually like to see the whole Andover
Plaza like revamped I think there's a
lot of potential there to do something
um on that
property but
um I also agree with the affordable
housing for people of all
ages um maybe attract some younger
families into
Handover um that's prob probably it for
the um the wants but um I I like um
Susan's idea of the the Arts and things
too but um
concerns I mean I like to keep the small
town charm that we have so maybe
concentrate the
you know the growth on Route Six so
you're not taking you know the the
space in the historic
area um and and that's really what I
like about Andover just the small town
feel that we have and of course you know
the people that are in it
so that's all I got
okay now I think so I think I've called
on everybody that's
here tonight I guess when when I look
through here you know my my biggest want
was the uh small affordable senior
housing
developments and
uh yeah and I'm going to jump down to
what's what's special about Andover that
be should be protected and I kind of
like you know and we've all said it the
rural environment
and for most people you know when they
all they see of Andover is driving
through on Route Six and and so my
concern
is you if we
develop too much on Route six is is that
development going to cost us more than
than we gain by doing that because you
know we we we know we' got the Christmas
tree farm for sale out there and I hate
to see that go I like seeing all the
Christmas trees I like seeing the Farms
along rout six so
um there's there's two sides I know we'd
all
like to see a little
development but I don't know that that I
get too upset about having to drive to
Hein or you know uh Bolton or whatever
ever to uh to get something I I don't
know that I'm willing to trade the uh
the pastorial rural views along Route 6
you know to uh to save two
minutes on my uh on my trip there but
but I really liked driving through and
over on Route Six and the views that
that we had there and so uh that's
something I think we need to to be
careful and protect uh you know in the
conversation that that I've had with
Eric certainly you know we all think we
want development so that we can keep the
taxes in line and
uh and Eric has uh you know convinced me
that putting in a couple of new new
stores in that isn't really going to
solve the tax budget deal for us it it
just is going to help that much to make
a big deal difference um
you know when uh what's special about
Handover I I like just you know my my
ability to walk around the lake every
day it's it's just a beautiful walk and
uh you know I if I thought about you
know moving to a different Senior Living
Community or something I'd be giving
that up and I'm not sure I'm willing to
give that up yet so uh
um the uh I I think I think you know
under concerns we need to to address
climate
change
um and again this part of part of this
is through various discussions that that
Eric's uh you know I've heard Eric talk
on on different things but you the storm
intensity has really increased over the
last couple years and uh you we need to
make sure that the infrastructure is
ready to do that I'm getting signific an
erosion at my house because of all the
big
storms
um I'm concerned about you know when
sitting through all the budget
meetings I'm concerned about the ability
to uh to be
affordable to even to those that are
living here in the future when you know
we're we're trying to put money away for
the big projects and capital expenses
but you know one of the themes that came
out in the budget meetings was we
recognized we weren't putting enough
away to do that and so uh you know we
will continue to make ourselves a little
B more unaffordable and I think the way
we solv that is by bringing the housing
in bringing more people in and with the
seniors you don't have the burden of
school kids but I I like having I like
seeing the school kids run around and
play and do all that stuff too um well
um if you might say one more thing yep
go ahead u
i I do think that some businesses will
make a difference in taxes because if
you look at other
towns it does make a difference I mean
just the amount that the Dollar General
brought in in taxes one place was
amazing um and I've lived in towns that
purposely didn't want business but then
their taxes went out of sight and you
have to allow some of the businesses so
you get the taxes I mean we don't need
to do what South Windsor is doing with
monster places but uh we definitely need
to get something more I think Hein has
done a great job of bringing things in
and it really it's helping down
there
I poor
and I guess you know one of the things
that I don't know if it's concerned or
protected and enhanced but you know if
we ever had the opportunity to protect
like the post farm along Route Six it
would be nice to be able to have enough
money in our open space fund to uh to
allow us to protect that thing because I
think it's just a beautiful site out
there and so that's part your
conservation
and and funding and all that stuff but
uh but I think you know I don't know
what what Dollar General brought in you
know I didn't hear anything through the
budget meetings that I attended on that
I don't know if it's making a big
difference to us or not but uh I'm sure
it helps yeah but I would hate to see go
ahead Eric it's about
it's about one and a half times the cost
of a single child in the elementary
school
okay
so so if you had $200 generals you could
pay for your Elementary School
okay um they probably they'd probably be
happy the other way you get if you have
more housing and and don't keep it to
such huge Lots then you get more people
that way and you get more taxes that way
too and and and that's that's kind of
where I think we could go you know it's
not
for I don't think we would have any
impact on the rural pastorial views
going through town by building the you
know little cluster communities whether
it's the town houses or the small lots
for individual homes or whatever uh you
know it took me a long time to stumble
into andover's apartment house you know
it it is not detrimental to
any any of those things that we all love
about Andover and uh I think you know
the couple of places that we're looking
at maybe doing a uh a senior housing
development uh behind uh behind the town
hall or over at the the transfer station
property uh you could put that in and uh
it would not detract a bit from uh from
those things that we love about
Andover I mean look at the size Lots
around the lake they're all almost small
lot they they're smaller than we nice
Community yes I I agree so uh that was
you that was the most important and
doable thing that I thought we could do
but you know
certainly and I think this this list is
consistent with
uh what we saw on the surveys I guess
the the other comment that I would make
that I was a little surprised is uh you
know we asked where in the priority list
is Andover Lake for something that
Andover need to protect and there were a
bunch of comments that came in that
Andover Lake's private Lake doesn't do
anything for Handover and uh I think uh
you know that that is not true it's in
it's in our best interest to keep that
Lake healthy for as long as we can
because you know the taxes that we bring
in from the houses that are around it
are significant and uh it's just it's a
nice facility that draws people to
Andover you know people want to live
here because because of that lake so it
is it is good for Andover even though
it's not andover's Lake it's a private
thing there
but but anyhow Eric you had something on
that yeah just the the one thing I
haven't really seen that I think you
ought to
consider is complete
streets um and continued efforts to make
the s walkable and bikable and part of
the reason is if you're really going to
go after affordable housing a
significant fraction of the people who
require affordable
housing will need to use public
transportation um and unless you've made
it walkable and bikable for them to get
to public
transportation you kind of have this
mismatch you want affordable housing and
that's an awesome goal to be pursuing as
a town
but there's no business there's no place
for them to work in town practically so
they have to go somewhere so you have to
keep that connection so that they can
get to where they're going um as far as
concerns I mean in truth my biggest
long-term concern is the effect of
climate change um you know for a couple
reasons one um I think we're going to
have to deal with climate migration in
the United States there's already a lot
of evidence that the wealthier
population is moving back out of Florida
and out of some of the Southern areas
which they all flocked to in the past um
and unfortunately the people that are
are least mobile are are the the lowest
income residents in those areas but
we're going to have to accept the fact
that there will be a shift in
demographic population in the United
States and that is going to affect us um
so in in terms of special about
Andover um I would say in over the next
10 years I would think the popularity of
the East Coast
Greenway um is going to hopefully mirror
that of some of the other really
longdistance uh you know paths like the
CN uh Canal path um Virginia Creeper
Trail and stuff like that which means
it's a real engine for uh for you know
business in Commerce so I think that
that's something that uh we should keep
in mind and that's all I
got well actually I got a lot more but
well in the homework task was to come
with your most important and that's you
know why uh the complete
streets wasn't the most important to me
you know the senior housing is but
certainly uh you know I think the plan
that you've got in place is is uh you
know making significant strides there I
I can't remember how many pieces there
are after you get done with what we've
already gotten the works but I'm sure
there's a few things out there but uh
great progress on that and that does
enhance enhance the town there
yep
um Jim do you want to throw in anything
there for us
yeah you're on mute so I guess not I
think
I I think you've covered everything that
I had in my mind yeah the Hop river is a
big plus Post Farm um some alternative
housing
options um
move away from some of this large lot
development I
think maybe utilize the conservation
subdivision as a tool a little more
often maybe tweak
it okay very good
um you I have a concern about the the
demographics um you know we have an
older population and you know there's an
effort to to cater to to seniors and
that's great but I mean I think at the
that might be at the cost of uh maybe we
have to look at why there aren't younger
families coming
in that's all I got
Y young families aren't coming in
because they can't afford to for the
most part you know there's some of that
because they AFF to most part there some
of
that I yeah I think I I muted I muted
Jim again I think the echo y that's
that's where the echo is
but you know with the exception of the
natural public natural affordable
housing and again we're not talking low
income housing we're talking
about housing that's Workforce housing
and the thing I didn't care for for the
workforce housing is senior housing
they're not the workforce but uh we want
to make it so that they can afford to be
here it's uh you they're a good asset to
to our community as well so anyhow
thanks thanks everybody for their input
John I think that's all we got for you
on that particular item that's good I
what I will try to do um I'm gonna take
this this discussion and and craft it
into a
draft vision statement um for discussion
for our next meeting because I think
that to sort of put put this into a a
collective statement and and kind of
frame our our discussion moving forward
for for establishment of goals okay very
good yep and and at some point uh I know
the Conservation Commission is is you
know wanting to give us their two cents
on conservation uh plan going forward so
we can figure out how that fits in great
um
that was that next up on the agenda is
the approval of the regular meeting
minutes from April 16
2024 and I'll make a motion to approve
the regular meeting minutes from April
2024 I'll second that okay thanks
an any discussion on there
and I have no corrections to the
minutes I was I'll point out that I was
dismayed to see once again no second on
the motion or vote for uh adding the
item to go to Executive session last
time uh I thought sure I did that I went
back and watched video and nope missed
it again
so I'll appeal to each of you folks to
keep me honest on making sure that we uh
you make the motions and second and
vote okay hearing none uh I'll call for
a vote an hi
Leanne
I Susan I Scott I and I vote I as well
the men are approve 5 z
z next up is ad administrative reports
Jim
m j you're muted
again sorry Jim I keep muting you
because I think we have an echo on your
line
okay can you hear me am I echoing
okay all right I am working with the
Connecticut medication Society to to
complete a an application for a special
permit for their facility on Route Six
um I'm working with a number of property
owners uh that have pulled permits that
have not pulled permits around the lake
and um trying to get nutrient allocation
plans in
place did zva met last week uh and a
variance was granted for a a deck along
Lakeside Drive I have initiated
conversation with I believe it's uh New
England
Geo Geotech something of that uh
regarding updating our zoning map are
and
uh hopefully that will go fairly
smooth um I did I did
have a seasonal dwelling issue came come
up recently and just for those of you
who may or may not know there's there's
a handful of homes that are around the
lake that have been used
seasonally the regulations are a little
vague it sounds as though there's a
seasonal Zone and when a seasonal home
comes on the on the market um because
they tend to be
priced relatively low um or lower than
than a a year- round dwelling there's a
lot of interest there's a lot of
confusion um there's a lot of realators
calling um and this time around I tried
to get some bring some clarity to it and
unfortunately the town did have a record
of what homes were considered seasonal
and those records have seem to have um
gone away so I have to look at them on
an individual basis um and but it seems
to I think I have a handle on it
presently training I did do a look in
into training as uh everybody probably
knows uh clear provides a lot of
training that's required what I wasn't
aware of is they do they do load up
their um their classes can be watched at
any time and if the town what I was told
is if the town accepts
self-certification they can be used
towards the training requirement um so
I'll try and I'll try and post those um
this week
that's all I have any questions can can
we what so what do we know about the
difference between a three season and a
Four Season home and what and is it if
you buy a three season home is it
possible it if you buy a thre SE home is
it possible okay yeah it's very
difficult
um right now the difference is what it's
been used for there's under our zoning
regulations we allow uses of right and
special permit uses and under the lake
Zone a special permit use includes
conversion but conversion requires
adherence to section 112 of our
regulations which are the um the bulk
requirements the dimensional
requirements which is where most
properties fall short specifically
anything that's been used
seasonally so they would have somebody
would have to go to to zoning board of
appeals and seek Rel from those
particular sections of the of the
regulations and um quite honestly
there's I think it might be tough
to to make a hardship make good argument
for a
hardship what I'd like to do is is try
and do an inventory of seasonal homes I
have no idea how many there are whether
there's five or
20 and what I really have to rely on is
people people in the neighborhood that
have lived lived here for for some
time so it's definitely a
zba determination so it's definitely a
zba determination well it no it's it's a
special permit a conversion is by
special permit but very typically they
an applicant would need to go to zba
first just to secure relief from the
dimensional
requirements and we're talking you know
front yard setback side yard setback
um lot
size wouldn't special permit go before
zba way the reg reads would special per
go before zba no no so so it would be a
two-step process you would need I mean
typically you would need to go to zba in
order to comply I mean to comply with
the the requirements
of of the zoning
ranks or or have a
variance but it's still I mean it's
still up to the to the Planning and
Zoning commission it's still a special
permit kind kind of like if you recall
the the the application for some
activity Construction in the in the
flood zone it went to zba and then came
to to PCC for the special
permit on Handy Road 57 Handy Road um
which was a little
controversial yeah very
convoluted yeah Scott the uh so the size
requirement for a seasonal lot is
30,000 for seasal lot is
30,000 the uh year round lot is 60,000
square feet the year round lot is 60,000
ft a lot of lots around the lake don't
beet either of those and so you know
then then you have to go adjudicate why
you're not meeting 60,000 square feet um
asking for an increase in the usage
there may be the right answer and and
I'm just uh you know taking a guess here
is we change the
uh once we get a handle on I I think
there's
a a small number of seasonal houses
but none of these seasonal houses have
the 30,000 square feet so you know
they're all the all the Lots around here
are kind of in violation of what what
the regulation requires you could almost
make it the same a lot of them don't
have a quarter of that
Jud say again a lot of them don't have a
a lot of Four Season homes don't have a
quarter of that right and that's why you
know it bugs me a little bit that okay
so now you have to go to the zba because
you're lot six not 60,000 Square
ft and what's your hardship you know
this is the way that the lake was laid
out uh you know there's got to be
something better than than that lot size
uh if it's commensurate
with most of the other lot sizes that
shouldn't be a a roadblock to going out
and getting getting your house made year
round that's my to others there's four
season homes there with you know six or
7,000 square F feet Lots yep and there's
hardly no houses with
60,000 right none and so very few so I
think you know adjusting that graph in
in section 11 might be an answer if that
was something you know that I don't know
what the downside is you somebody could
come in with a 1,000 foot lot and say
okay I want a year round home probably
don't want that there ought to be some
kind of looking at it
but but the road
block that we currently have you know
shouldn't be there if you got a A
workable septic system and you've got
heat and and all that stuff you ought to
be able to have a year round house even
though you don't have 60,000 square
feet exactly yeah so it's
that's my thoughts yep if it's good for
one it should be good for the other guy
it should be and the question is how do
we write our regulations to uh to get us
there and and whenever we change
something there's always n intended
consequence and I haven't had enough
time to figure out what that is yet but
I'm thinking
about um Jim I have a question
great
lean Scott were you
done I I am
lean okay thanks um Jim have you had any
more communication with um Ryan Fitch
about that property for sale it was
mentioned tonight um in the course of
the discussion about the future of
Andover and then I think you've
mentioned it in the last meeting or two
have you um had any communication with
him since our last meeting
Jim you're muted
no was that question for Jim yes yes
that question for Jim un unless you have
John or maybe it was you John I thought
I
have yeah we uh so we we haven't um we
haven't had
Eric and I met with him a couple of
weeks
ago and uh he
Wason thoughts and sorry Jim I'm gonna M
you
again um sorry that there's just that
Echo um he we gave him some some
thoughts um some references to the
regulations about potential paths he
could take for for development options
if they were looking to develop
themselves as opposed to just put it on
the market and sell um I they put it on
the market for a fairly high price and I
think they're just going to see what
they get but um I think they're also you
know discussing internally if they want
to consider sort of leading uh leading a
Redevelopment of their own property um
but we haven't heard back from
that thank
you yeah Jim Jim had gotten one inquiry
from uh you know a potential buyer and
it it didn't pan out for anything but so
he did get somebody called him and uh I
guess guess that's one of uh one of the
thoughts that do we really have a
interested buyer for the gravel pit and
nobody's been over asking Jim any
questions and that's normally uh the
first sign that there's some real
interest okay uh John so it's h it's
time for your report if you've got
anything for us here sure uh just two
quick things um first uh in addition to
our conversation with
um uh Fitch um I'd also had a couple of
conversations on the phone with Keith
Grimaldi um about his property um that
sort of fronts Route Six near near
887 um and uh after you know sort of
leaving that that property kind of
fellow and and um his sort of
development plans had kind of Fallen
Fallen um you know vacant for a while uh
he's decided he's going to put it on the
market and there may already be a sign
there I'm not sure if it is um but um
we've also encouraged him to come in or
have a zoom meeting with with Jed and
Eric and myself to just talk about
options not necessarily convincing him
to stay and try again but just to better
understand um what you know we and the
current you know alignment of the
regulations feel is possible there um so
that could potentially help his
decision- making or to help his
marketing of the property so we're we're
we're reaching out to him and hopefully
can get him into a meeting sooner than
later um I think he's you know he's a
he's a builder elsewhere in the state
and so it's pretty busy but um we're
going to try to get him in the meeting
um so that's number one number two is
just as a heads up um this is I think
our first meeting since the legislative
session ended
um the
uh um
there was an interesting bill passed um
there there was many many many proposals
relative to local zoning and housing um
basically all of them died except for
one um Bill Bill
5474 um which pass both houses and is
awaiting the governor's signature which
does among other things
um allows for nursing homes to be
converted at vacant nursing homes
underused nursing homes to be converted
as of right to multif
family um I don't I don't know that that
really affects Andover particularly um
but that is you know I think it's a
change that signals planing that that
the the Connecticut general assembly is
trying to find ways to to turn the dial
a little bit on increased housing
production um and sort of taking it from
a Redevelopment standpoint so um that
build change so if there's any nursing
homes kicking around town that that are
underused um they could they could be
quickly converted to a multi
family so that's just an
update okay thanks John I do want to
Circle back to Jim one more time the it
it's probably worth you mentioning Jim
the uh activity by you and uh the
wetlands agent out there at Pine Ridge
uh drive and where we stand on on that
uh I guess complaint if you
will
Jim okay there were some comping issues
um involving erosion and sedimentation
control and some citation was was
leaving the site some some um stock
piles of soil
were were located offsite
um and Joe and I both met with with the
the Builder it's a single family home
it's um George kareah and he is in the
process of of making Corrections uh we
were out there today and he's he's made
some substantial progress um I intend to
get back get back there tomorrow or be
in touch with them and update them with
what I what I see need still be done
and that's
it okay yeah thanks
Jim okay
thanks next up is Inland Wetlands water
course and and I've got nothing to
report other than that uh you the what
Jim just talked about out there on Pine
Ridge was uh it appeared to be a pretty
significant ific an violation
uh and uh you know we we uh we as a town
need to continue to keep our fingers in
the p uh you know up until probably the
certificate of occupancy or whatever
gets done because you know I had lost
track of uh I figured the houses were
all built out there and people were
living in them by now obviously not true
so uh
so we need to keep every now and then
going out and taking a look at at these
different projects that we got going
on next up is commission discussion any
other things that uh we
uh ought to be talking about tonight in
heaven okay move on to uh close cousin
is
miscellaneous I got nothing there
either any public
comment and I don't see anybody here for
that date of the next regular scheduled
meeting is June 18th
uh looking to see if Eric's still here
he may have taken off uh I was going to
ask him if we'd be in the new uh
Community Center by then
um it'll be close if the community
center's ready to have a meeting we'll
we'll have it there uh hybrid otherwise
I think they've uh I think they're
planning on about the second week of
July for a grand opening at the
community
center okay very good
um so we'll meet uh meet online again uh
on June
18th and I didn't check my calendar but
I'm assuming June 18th is the right date
there we're gonna have a punch list in a
couple weeks for the
building and then
uh hopefully it'll be done by that time
period
super it sounds
good any other comments before we make a
motion to adjourn
hearing none I'll make a motion to
adjourn I'll second second okay I got
Scott down for seconding that
um all in favor raise your hand say I I
I I any
opposed any extensions motion to adjourn
passes
500 uh thank you everybody for your
participation tonight uh it was kind of
long- winded on the Gravel Pit but uh I
uh I think
uh the path we've chosen might not be
the quickest but it's a good one so uh
thank you for your help coming up with
that and we'll see everybody in June
good night everybody